Hi there, in this video I’ll be presenting this poster in a little more detail and also providing some more detail into my sources as well as why you should make using free and open-source software a priority. 
So, let’s jump right into it.
Obviously the first question you might have looking at the title of the poster is what does it mean for software to be free and open source. We should probably have a talk about the open-source side first. 
If you have the PDF copy of this poster you can click on any of the links or pages to find out more or give the software a try. I’ll include them in the description too.
The OSI have many points in their definition to avoid commercial loopholes but the primary dependency for a piece of software being open source is that the source code for a program should be freely distributed and easy to find. If you want to see a bit more detail into their reasoning you can also have a look at their annotated definition which I will leave in the description too. 
The Free software foundation have some additional guidelines which we can see in their definition. The idea with free software isn’t just about the software not costing anything but the freedom to use the software how you want, look at the code and to change and redistribute your modifications.
The main idea of these two concepts is to make programs that anyone can improve upon such that anyone with an interest can evolve computing and make it better for everyone.
If we start looking at the software, we can see that the biggest free and open-source software is Linux. It has been contributed to by many large corporations proving that this is a sustainable model that companies can still profit from. 
You can see that many of the software here is released under the GNU public license. This license satisfies bot the FSF and OSI definitions so any software you see under this license is guaranteed both free and opensource. 
There are benefits in using this software too as you don’t have to pay, and large corporations aren’t spying over your shoulder to see how and when you’re using their software to make money from your data. So, you really should have a click through this software to fit it into your workflow. 